Cranberry Tart
Recipe from Gina DePalma
Adapted by Florence Fabricant
YIELD10 to 12 servings
TIME2 hours plus 1 hour’s chilling

INGREDIENTS
1 ¼ cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
½ cup instant or fine polenta
1 ¾ cups sugar
1 ¼ teaspoons salt
 Freshly grated zest of 1 lemon
4 ounces (1 stick) unsalted butter, diced
1 large egg plus 3 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
½ cup light corn syrup
3 cups (12-ounce bag) fresh cranberries, picked over
½ cup heavy cream
 Confectioners' sugar, optional
 
 Place 1 1/4 cups flour, polenta, 1 cup sugar, 1 teaspoon salt and lemon zest in a food processor and process to blend. Add butter and pulse until mixture resembles coarse sand. In a small bowl, beat whole egg with oil and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Uncover processor, pour in liquid ingredients and pulse until a ball of dough forms. This may take 20 or more quick pulses. If necessary, sprinkle in a little water if mixture does not come together. Form dough into a disk and wrap in plastic. Chill at least 1 hour.
In a 3-quart saucepan, melt remaining sugar over low heat. Stir in syrup and bring to a boil. Add cranberries and cook, stirring, about 2 minutes, until they begin to release juice. Remove to a bowl and allow to cool about 20 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Roll out dough to an 12-inch circle and fit into a 10-inch loose-bottom tart pan. If dough tears, it can easily be pressed together.
In a bowl, whisk together cream and 2 tablespoons flour. Whisk in three egg yolks, remaining vanilla and a pinch of salt. Pour over cranberries and fold together. Pour into tart shell, place pan on a baking sheet and bake about 40 minutes, until filling bubbles but is not yet firm, and pastry browns. Cool in pan before removing sides; if desired, dust with confectioners’ sugar.

From Florence: Not true. You certainly can melt sugar without water. Recipes call for water because it’s a little easier but takes longer because you have to cook it until all the water evaporates.
