Maureen Abood’s Lavender and Orange Blossom Cookies
YIELD2 dozen cookies
TIME35 minutes

These buttery, shortbread-like cookies, called graybeh, have a particularly crunchy texture that comes from clarified butter. If you’ve never clarified butter, this recipe is a good place to start, and the process is extremely simple (though you do have to plan it several hours ahead). If you’re not a lavender fan, feel free to leave it out. And for a more familiar flavor, substitute vanilla extract for the orange blossom water. These cookies keep well, so you can make them up to a week in advance. —Melissa Clark

INGREDIENTS
¾ cup/180 grams clarified butter, at room temperature (see note)
1 ¾ cups/215 grams confectioners’ sugar
2 teaspoons/1 gram dried lavender, ground to a powder
½ teaspoon/3 grams kosher salt
1 teaspoon/ 5 milliliters orange blossom water
1 ¾ cups/228 grams all-purpose flour, more as needed

PREPARATION
Heat oven to 325 degrees with a rack in the center of the oven. Line two sheet pans (not dark metal) with parchment paper.
In an electric mixer, beat the butter on high for about 6 minutes, until light and fluffy. Add 3/4 cup (92 grams) confectioners’ sugar, lavender and salt and beat another 2 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, and with the mixer on low speed, add orange blossom water and mix to combine.
Add flour to butter 1/2 cup (about 65 grams) at a time, until dough is crumbly and slightly dry but still able to hold together when squeezed, adding additional flour if necessary.
Divide dough into quarters and press each into a long narrow log about 1 inch high and 1 inch wide. With a sharp knife, cut into log diagonally to make diamond-shaped cookies 1 to 2 inches long. Use a spatula to transfer cookies to sheet pans, spaced about 2 inches apart. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, rotating pan halfway through. Cookies should be golden brown at the edges.
Sift remaining confectioners’ sugar over baked cookies while still warm. Store in an airtight container for up to 1 week.
Tip
To clarify butter, melt 2 sticks (1 cup) over low heat. Pour the butter into a metal bowl and chill for at least 3 to 4 hours, until solid (or up to a week). Pop butter out of the bowl (you may have to warm the bottom of the bowl slightly with your palms so the butter unsticks itself). Rinse butter under cold water, removing the white layer on the top and bottom. Pat butter dry with paper towels.

In her recipe, Maureen Abood suggests other flavorings that can be used instead of the lavender and orange blossom water:
a few drops of rosewater;
1/2 tsp anise extract or ground anise seed;
or a rose water / orange blossom water combo.

Add the flour slowly—I added what the recipe required and the dough became almost impossible to shape. I ended up adding in more butter, which helped, but also caused the cookies to lose their shape in the oven. Nevertheless, they tasted amazing!
